IESG
Questionnaire for the Area Director position (not IETF Chair)

==================================================================

Please return to nomcom-19@ietf.org no later than October 15,
2019, 23:59 UTC.

This questionnaire is intended to provide the Nominating Committee
with information to help select among nominees for the IETF Trust

The datatracker tools work best if you submit this in 77-column
pre-wrapped ASCII, a la text/plain.

------------------------------------------------------------------

CONFIDENTIALITY: NOTE that the contents of this questionnaire will
remain absolutely confidential to the nominations committee
process. For the IESG, this means that it will be shared with the
NomCom and with the confirming body, which is the currently
sitting IAB.

IMPORTANT: There is a section of this questionnaire labeled NOT
FOR CONFIRMING BODY. You may elect to write some information that
will not be shared with the confirming body. It will be kept
absolutely confidential by the nominating committee.

When multiple questions are asked within a numbered block, you may
wish to provide a single answer that responds to that range of
questions.

Thank you!

==================================================================

NOTE: Before providing answers to this questionnaire, please take
into consideration the desired expertise for the IESG Area
Director position you are nominated for. The expertise page for
the position can be found by clicking on the relevant tab on the
NomCom 2019 expertise page found at the following url: https://
datatracker.ietf.org/nomcom/2019/expertise/

==================================================================

1. Name and Contact Info
Name:
Affiliation:
Consultants/Contractors, please provide the affiliation(s)
of your
primary customer(s)
Email(s):
Phone(s):
Home Timezone:
URL for resume/linkedin/etc:
You may link to your resume, or include it below the text of
the form.
Do not use attachments to your email - they may be lost!"

    [1] as follows:

    Name: Erik Kline
    Affiliation: Loon LLc
    Email(s): ...
    Phone(s): ...
    Home Timezone: US/Pacific
    URL for resume/linkedin/etc: none

==================================================================

2. Experience

Please explain your current experience related to the job
description you are nominated for. Please cover relevant
management training or experience. (Including: soft skills,
management training, conflict resolution, leadership,
inter-cultural, and risk management).

    [2] I would summarize my experience in technical and non-technical
    categories as follows.

    [ Technical ]

    - I've been a regular IETF participant since first attending IETF 70 in
      December 2007 (originally in order to participate in 6man).

    - I have co-authored one published RFC (RFC 6564), am co-author on
      draft-ietf-capport-rfc7710bis (on track for eventual publication),
      and have been cited in the Acknowledgments section of, at most, about
      a dozen others.

    - I have not insignificant experience implementing several key IETF
      Internet Area technologies, including:

        - From 2007 through 2014, I wrote much of the IPv6 support in
          Google infrastructure.  This included IPv6 in core C++ and Java
          networking libraries, the HTTP frontend, the YouTube streamer,
          authoritative DNS, Google's NTP service, and the IPv6 serving and
          recursing support in the Public DNS service. I also wrote the
          DNS64 implementation in the Google Public DNS service.  When the
          Google datacenter wanted to start moving to IPv6-only I helped
          design and develop the first proof-of-concept for /64 to the host
          with per-process IP addressing and ILNP-inspired mobility (this
          work was advanced by others [Lorenzo Colitti, Tom Herbert,
          et al.] and became ILA).

        - During this time I also co-authored the design, implementation,
          and paper summarizing Google's IPv6 measurements, which still
          powers google.com/ipv6 public statistics (see the Scholar page:

            https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=1yKwJWAAAAAJ

          for links to the measurements paper).

        - From 2014 to 2018 as a member of this Android Core Networking
          team I implemented things IPv6 tethering support (using RFC 7278,
          a.k.a. 64share), and a dynamic RA daemon that responds to changes
          in upstream connectivity, deprecating prefixes appropriately).  I
          was involved in the Android PVD architecture implementation
          (including a handful of Linux kernel fixes to support this),
          handled some minor NTP support issues, wrote some ARP/ND -driven
          network measurement and monitoring, and was also the tech lead
          for the "Private DNS" project, adding DNS-over-TLS (RFC 7858)
          support into the core platform:

            https://android-developers.googleblog.com/2018/04/dns-over-tls-support-in-android-p.html

    - I am co-chair of ART area's capport working group (since early 2017)
      and a Gen-ART reviewer (since early 2018).

    [ Non-technical ]

    - I have been a manager of technical teams on three separate occasions.
      There was some training at the time, but the primary focus was on the
      legal implications and responsibilities and not on soft skills of any
      real value, regrettably.

      Each managerial experience eventually involved some hard
      conversations with employees including two dismissals and one
      investigation for possible theft of company property.

      As such, for the past twenty years I've focused on individual
      technical contribution, often in a role providing technical
      leadership and architectural vision.

    - I have collaborated with numerous teams on technical objectives,
      both within Alphabet and outside it.

      Most memorable for me was helping found and participating in the
      organization of the ISOC-led World IPv6 Day (2011) and World IPv6
      Launch (2012) events. Both involved coordinating internal legal and
      technical approval and interactions with other like-minded folks
      doing the same coordination at Yahoo, Facebook, Akamai, Cisco,
      Microsoft, and others.

==================================================================

3. IETF

How can the value of the IETF to internal and broader technical
community be improved (please comment on culture, operations, or
other topics)?

    [3] The IETF has some of the most easily searchable and navigable
    documents of any SDO. There is a plethora of text on technical,
    cultural, and even legal matters that is freely available to read with
    any number of simple tools -- all easily indexed, no subscription or
    membership required, nor fees of any kind other than basic Internet
    access.

    However, one thing that can be quite daunting for anyone trying to
    familiarize themselves with an area is often the absence of a framework
    for organizing all the documents conceptually.  The publication of the
    Tao as a web page provides a nice, coherent introduction to numerous
    RFCs about the IETF itself.  Similarly, the effort that went in to
    squashing all the RFCs, updates, and errata into RFC 8200 (for the
    purposes of publishing a standards document) did a nice job of forming
    a single entry point for someone new to and interested in the technical
    details of IPv6.  As long as it doesn't negatively impact other work
    or the community itself to do, I'm generally in favor this kind of
    thing (consider, for example, how someone interested in writing a DNS
    implementation from scratch -- for whatever reason -- would go about
    wading through all the DNS RFCs to figure out how best to proceed).

    To be more inclusive of newcomers requires more than these kinds of
    technological assistance.  Inclusivity improves both by inviting others
    into your community and meeting others in their communities.  The BoF
    process and, even better, the ${AREA}-dispatch work groups are good
    fora into which to invite folks who want to figure out how to solve a
    particular problem and perhaps thereafter join the larger community.
    Wider circulation of these and related opportunities might be worth
    pursuing.

    As for meeting others in their communities, I think there should be
    solid argument to be made for bringing work to the IETF.  Its not
    uncommon to overhear someone decrying the speed of the process or
    bemoaning anticipated obstructionism.  Though the process can be
    difficult, the value of scrutiny by the diversity of implementors and
    operators is something to uphold.  The articulation of how any why
    work brought to the IETF became better as a consequence (think: QUIC)
    is an important message to bring other communities in order to keep new
    ideas and new people flowing into the IETF community.

=============================================================

4. IESG

Please explain your understanding and ability to support the work
load associated with the position. Explain the value you will
bring to the role and how it will help enhance the mission of the
IETF. Please provide details on the area you were nominated and
identify areas where improvement is needed.

    [4] RFC 3710 sets out a charter for the IETF, describing numerous
    functions including working group life-cycle management, IETF document
    review and handling for both working group and non-working-group
    documents, as well as other process management and appeals/conflict
    resolution responsibilities.  Having sat in on some public IESG WebEx
    meetings, a good amount of time is spent discussing document readiness
    and concerns.  I suspect the confidential meetings that follow are
    considerably more focused on candid discussion of contentious issues.

    I suspect the ability to read and digest (at varying levels of detail)
    a substantial quantity of documents is required.  Coordinating with the
    relevant INT area directorate to share some of this load will no doubt
    be critical.  It's been my pleasure to do Gen-ART reviews of several
    documents from across many of the IETF areas.  And of course detailed
    review of INT area issues in non-INT-area documents is essential for
    fulfilling the requisite consultative review role.

    I have a fairly detailed understanding of some INT area topics, and a
    broad through cursory understanding of many others.  I always aim to
    read and assimilate the fundamental intent of a document into a
    systemic whole; in fact, broadening and deepening a systems-level view
    of the layers of the Internet is at the core of what keeps me engaged
    in the IETF.  It's precisely this energy and perspective that I hope to
    bring to the role.

    Furthermore, I try to carry the perspectives of an operating system
    implementor (Android), a content provider (Google), and a (nascent)
    network operator (Loon -- yes, really!) into every technical context.

=============================================================

5. Cross IETF Collaboration

Explain how your role will fit into the IETF as a whole and how
you will add value.

    [5] INT area directors are responsible for working groups that address
    a wide range of technical topics at Layer 3 and, colloquially, "Layer 3
    adjacent".  Finding experts for review of documents that come from
    within the INT area and elsewhere is paramount, as is serving as one of
    the reviewers.  Additionally, being open and available for consultation
    on the wide range of INT area topics is a critical role (certainly I've
    bent Suresh's ear on no end of issues).

    I've had some direct implementation experience with several INT area
    technologies including IPv4, IPv6, DNS, DHCP, and NTP.  This has been
    helpful in work in capport work, understanding how client operating
    systems attach to a network and receive provisioning information.

    My experience with deploying IPv6 into production at Google has
    informed my participation and contributions in v6ops.  Having helped
    write the original IPv6 geolocation pipeline at Google (including
    figuring how to bootstrap geolocation information when there were very
    few IPv6 clients on the Internet), I was able to capture the team's
    work in draft-google-self-published-geofeeds (this document is still
    progressing on the Independent Stream Editor's publication path).

=============================================================

6. Mentoring and Participation

How would you mentor the next group of IETF leaders? How would you
help increase and/or improve participation in the IETF as a whole?

    [6] On an individual level, mentoring begins with respectfully helping
    someone understand:

        - the Tao of the IETF (its importance matches its length),

        - the values of the IETF (per the RFC 3935 mission statement, the
          IETF is not value-neutral), which should include mention of
          draft-iab-for-the-users (if published), and

        - the architectural principles of the Internet (cf. RFC 1958).

    Ideally, I feel those who would be leaders are those with actual
    implementation experience.  (Operating a network of moderate complexity
    is important, but not necessarily sufficient for INT area.)  The
    hackathon is a great opportunity for someone to get a start, and there
    are generally several opportunities to contribute to open source
    projects.  All this should be encouraged, and it seems natural to look
    to these groups for emergent leaders.

    Lastly, I think that leaders in the IETF need a healthy respect for the
    scope and impact of the work, and a healthy skepticism of unproven
    limitations.  I'm not sure how to engender this in others, but there
    can be no doubt that is begins by modeling it.

=============================================================

7. Additional Information

Is there any information you wish to share with the Nomination
committee and the confirming body (IAB)? Please provide that
feedback in this section.

    [7] All good.

=============================================================

NOT FOR CONFIRMING BODY

The answer to the following question will not be shared with the
confirming body (the IAB). This section may include personal
identifying information.

8. Additional Information - For NomCom Only

Is there any information you wish to share with the Nominating
Committee that you do not wish to have shared with the IAB? This
may include additional details about employment or work time
issues. It may include opinions or comments about individuals on
the various bodies involved in leading the IETF activities. It may
include opinions about the direction of working groups, areas, or
leadership bodies. These comments may also include elaborations on
any of your above answers, if there are further aspects you would
like to mention that you do not want shared with the IAB.

    [8] Have a pleasant day.

END OF SECTION: NOT FOR CONFIRMING BODY

=============================================================
